Git Commands-->

1. Git Version and installation check-
git version

2. Configuring username and email. Not for any git hosting platform.
git config --global user.name "Name"
git config --global user.email "usernamexxx@email.com"

3. Goto folder being used for project repo. Initialize as git repo-
git init

4. Check status of the repo. The files committed, the files in stagging area and their status (new/modified/untracked)
git status

5. Adding file to stagging area. Add after every change made to file.
git add filename.extension
For adding all files to staging area.
git add .

6. Committing file. Checkpoint for files are created thus.
git commit -m "message"

7. Checking activities and head position, author, commit hash.
git log

8. Removing file from stagging area or Unstage.
git rm --cached filename.extension

9. Creating branch.
git branch branch_name

10. Moving from master to branch.
git checkout branch_name

11. Adding and committing at the same time.
git commit -am "message"

12. Moving back from branch to master. The changes made in branch are not reflected in the master.
git checkout master

13. Merging changes from current branch to other branches.
git checkout branch_to_be_merged_with
git merge branch_to_be_merged


Creating new Repo and adding local repo to remote repo hoted on github server.
1. Create new repo on github repository without Readme.md file

2. Adding Origin/Remote Repo. (After initializing, adding and committing)
git remote add origin url_of_repo

3. Check status of remote repo.
git remote -v

4. Pushing local repo to remote repo.
git push -u origin master

5. Pushing branches to origin.
Switch to branch
Commit changes
git push origin branch_name

Note: pull(remote to working directory)=fetch(remote to local)+merge(local to working directory)

Pull Requests
1. Goto repo->branch. Click on Compare and Pull. Create pull request.
2. Resolve Merge conflicts if any.
3. Owner of the repo can only give access to pull.
Note: Changes are not reflected on local repo by doing this. Only on hosted.

Getting the changes on remote repo to local repo.
git pull


Making gitignore.
1. Make a file .gitignore in local repo.
2. Add names of files that you don't want to upload on github on pushing.
3. Add and Commit .gitignore file.